For a few moments, I would like to speak to you on the theme,
we continually remember your endurance.
What is endurance?
The original language word in the Greek scriptures
has the sense of standing one's ground
and persevering, remaining steadfast under trial.
But it means even more than just toughing it out
under a difficult circumstance.
The Christian who endures has genuine hope.
He or she is convinced that as 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 17 puts it,
the tribulation is momentary and light
compared with the reward which is everlasting.
To illustrate the importance of endurance,
you see before me a number of suitcases.
Some are small, some are large.
What we don't know is how heavy each one is.
That depends on what's inside.
Some large suitcases can be surprisingly light.
Some smaller ones could be surprisingly heavy.
In a sense, this illustrates what confronts each one of us
when we dedicate our life to Jehovah and start out on the race for life.
At first, we may not know what loads will have to carry.
We may worry about what might seem to be big tests
only to find that they're not as overwhelming as we feared they would be.
On the other hand, some loads that we thought would be light,
perhaps getting along with one another in love,
might be heavier to carry than we anticipated.
Then there are unexpected tests of our faith,
tests that could involve health problems, financial anxieties,
family issues, and personal disappointments.
All such situations call for endurance.
The governing body wants you dear brothers and sisters to know
that we love you for your steadfast endurance.
Our feelings are well summarized by Paul's words
at 1 Thessalonians 1 verses 2 and 3.
There he wrote to the faithful Christians,
we always thank God.
When we mention all of you in our prayers,
for we continually remember your faithful work,
your loving labor, and your endurance,
because of your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ
in the presence of our God and Father.
How beautifully these words convey our feelings about you.
We are greatly encouraged and strengthened by your faithfulness,
your integrity, and your endurance.
No matter what type of hardship you are facing,
two things are certain.
Jehovah knows how heavy your load is,
and he can give you the strength to carry it.
Think about that first statement.
Jehovah knows how heavy your load is.
How do we know that?
Open your Bible to Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10.
Here, the Apostle Paul, himself,
a wonderful example of endurance,
tells us what makes our steadfast endurance worthwhile.
Hebrews chapter 6 verse 10 says,
For God is not unrighteous,
so as to forget your work,
and the love you showed for his name
by ministering and continuing to minister to the holy ones.
Imagine, Jehovah would consider it unrighteous
to take your endurance for granted.
In fact, Jehovah does more than acknowledge your work.
He also helps you to carry your load.
How do we know that?
Open your Bible to Philippians chapter 4 verses 12 and 13.
And notice here what the Apostle Paul,
this model of endurance, tells us.
Now, just before we read it,
perhaps we may think of Paul as being a newcomer to the Christian faith,
and compared to many others, he was.
But by the time he wrote to the Philippians in 60 or 61 CE,
Paul had encountered many obstacles.
He had many heavy loads to carry.
Paul mentions a few of them in these verses.
But then, in the second half of verse 12,
notice what Paul writes in everything.
And in all circumstances,
I have learned the secret of both how to be full
and how to hunger,
both how to have an abundance and how to do without.
Now, notice what he says in verse 13.
For all things, I have the strength
through the one who gives me power.
What does this mean for us?
That whatever load we have to carry as a Christian,
we are not doing it with our own power.
Jehovah will help us carry it.
He will give us the needed strength.
Paul knew that because he had experienced this
from Jehovah first hand,
he had Jehovah's help in his life.
How?
Well, consider what Paul faced on his first missionary tour.
An exciting assignment laid before Paul,
Barnabas, and their traveling companions.
Would it be a light load full of only good experiences?
Or would this assignment involve challenges?
Some perhaps heavier than he anticipated.
Let's find out.
One of Paul's first stops was Pasidian Antioch.
Here, Paul and his companions had great success.
In fact, the people begged them to come back
on the next Sabbath to tell them more.
That seems like a light load to carry, doesn't it?
But Paul's return visit did not go as smoothly
as he probably expected.
While some accepted the good news,
a poser stirred up the crowd to the extent
that Paul and his companions were thrown out of the city.
Paul's next stop was Iconium,
about a 100 mile or 160 kilometer trip from Antioch.
Paul couldn't take a train, a bus, or a taxi.
He had to travel on foot.
Things go better for him when he got to Iconium.
Would his preaching there be a lighter load to carry
than it was in Antioch?
Well, some did accept his message,
but then a poser stirred up opposition
before long Paul and his companions had to flee again.
This time, they walked 20 miles or about 30 kilometers
to Listera.
At first, things went well there.
After Paul and Barnabas were mistaken for gods,
they gave a skillful witness to the people of Listera
about their powerful creator.
But then, the imposers from Antioch
and Iconium came after Paul.
Some of them hated Paul so much,
they walked over 100 miles or 160 kilometers
to attack him.
When they found him, they stoned Paul
and dragged him out of the city, leaving him for dead.
Did Paul think that this load was getting too heavy to carry?
Did he cave into discouragement because
the imposers hated him and even attacked him physically?
No.
Paul had endurance.
And a person who endures never gives up hope,
even in the face of persecution.
So what did Paul do?
He continued right on with preaching this time in Derby.
Just imagine the effort Paul had to exert
about the 60 miles or about 100 kilometers to Derby
the day after he had almost been stoned to death.
However, the trip was worth the effort
because while in Derby, Paul and his companions
made many disciples.
As you can see, Paul had a heavy load to carry
but he didn't give up.
He continued preaching.
But then, Paul did something more.
Open your Bible to Acts chapter 14.
Here we see something that proved Paul
to be a man of endurance.
At Acts chapter 14 and verse 21, we read,
After declaring the good news to that city
and making quite a few disciples,
they returned to Listera,
Iconium, and Antioch.
Imagine Paul and his companions walked back
to the very cities where they had been viciously persecuted.
Why?
Verse 22 says,
There they strengthened the disciples,
encouraging them to remain in the faith
and saying, We must enter into the kingdom of God
through many tribulations.
At first, that statement might seem strange.
How could Paul encourage the disciples
by telling them that they would have many tribulations?
That prospect would seem depressing, not encouraging,
but look carefully at Paul's words.
He didn't simply say, We must endure many tribulations.
He said, We must enter into the kingdom of God
through many tribulations.
In other words, Paul strengthened the disciples
by emphasizing the positive result of endurance.
As Jesus said at Matthew chapter 10 verse 22,
The one who has endured to the end will be saved.
What's the lesson for us?
Endurance is not just a matter of toughing it out
under a difficult situation.
Endurance means keeping our hope bright in our mind.
It means being personally convinced
that as 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 17 says,
The tribulation is momentary and light,
but the reward is everlasting.